---
layout: main.hbs
title: Hadachek v. Oregon
---

# Hadachek v. Oregon
## Constitutional Opportunity for Intersex Rights Protection

### InterConnect Summer Conference Presentation

**July 25, 2025**

**Special Acknowledgment**: This presentation is made possible through
the generous support of the **Genital Autonomy Collective (GAC)**,
Portland\'s regional support group for people affected by genital
cutting. GAC\'s funding enabled this critical outreach effort, while
their organizational excellence and compassionate research communication
have been instrumental in advancing this constitutional opportunity. We
extend profound gratitude to GAC for their strategic vision in
supporting intersex community education about this unprecedented legal
framework.

**Presentation Overview**

#### I. Executive Summary & Critical Constitutional Challenge

**What This Case Is**

*Hadachek et al. v. Oregon* (Case No. 25CV18224) is a state
constitutional lawsuit challenging Oregon\'s Female Genital Mutilation
statutes as discriminatory. Filed March 27, 2025, in Multnomah County
Circuit Court, this case argues that Oregon Revised Statutes 163.207 and
431A.600 violate the Oregon Constitution by protecting girls from
genital cutting while providing no equivalent protection for boys or
intersex children.

**What We\'re Challenging**

Oregon\'s legal framework creates an unconstitutional three-tier
protection system:

- **Full Criminal Protection**: Female children receive Class B felony
  protection from genital cutting

- **Zero Protection**: Male children have no statutory protection from
  analogous procedures

- **Legal Void**: Intersex children exist in an enforcement gap with no
  clear legal guidance

**Why This Matters for Intersex Rights**

This case presents the first constitutional opportunity to establish
explicit legal protection for intersex children. Oregon\'s binary sex
classification system in its anti-cutting statutes fails to address
intersex anatomy, creating arbitrary enforcement where procedures
affecting intersex children receive no protection regardless of
invasiveness or medical necessity.

**Legal Emergency Alert**

- **Motion to Dismiss Filed**: Oregon Attorney General challenges case
  survival (July 23, 2025)

- **Intersex Plaintiff Needed**: Without an intersex plaintiff case may
  lose its power to set precedent for intersex rights

- **Constitutional Precedent at Stake**: Only current opportunity for
  state-level intersex protection

#### II. Meet the Legal Team & Strategic Framework

**Lead Attorneys**

[**Lake James H. Perriguey, Esq.**](https://www.law-works.com/)

- **Oregon Bar #983213** \| Law Works LLC, Portland

- **Civil Rights Champion**: Filed *Geiger v. Kitzhaber* (Oregon
  marriage equality)

- **Intersex Advocacy**: Represented Jamie Shupe (first legal non-binary
  recognition)

[**Eric Clopper, Esq.**](https://www.clopper.law/)

- **Lead Counsel** \| The Clopper Law Firm PC, Los Angeles

- **Background**: Georgetown Law graduate, [**Intact Global**](https://www.intactglobal.org/) founder

- **Strategic Vision**: Constitutional protection for all children
  regardless of sex characteristics

- **Contact**: eric@intactglobal.org

**Supporting Organizations**

[**Genital Autonomy Legal Defense & Education Fund (GALDEF)**](https://www.galdef.org/)

- **Mission**: Support impact litigation expanding children\'s bodily
  integrity rights

- **501(c)(3) Status**: Tax-deductible litigation funding

- **Focus**: Strategic cases establishing legal precedents protecting
  vulnerable children

[**Genital Autonomy Collective (GAC)**](https://www.autonomycollective.org/)

- **Portland Regional Support**: Community network for individuals
  affected by genital cutting

- **Mission**: Intersectional advocacy emphasizing inclusive spaces for
  marginalized communities

- **Approach**: Explicitly anti-fascist, anti-racist framework
  supporting comprehensive bodily autonomy

- **Strategic Role**: Funding and organizational support for critical
  intersex rights education efforts

#### III. Legal Framework: Why Oregon Provides Unique Opportunity

**Constitutional Advantages**

[Oregon Constitution Article I, Section 20](https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/lawsstatutes/orcons.html)

\"No law shall be passed granting to any citizen or class of citizens
privileges, or immunities, which, upon the same terms, shall not equally
belong to all citizens.\"

**Strategic Benefits**:

- **Strict Scrutiny Standard**: Sex-based classifications receive
  highest constitutional review under Oregon law

- **Stronger Than Federal Law**: Oregon courts apply more rigorous
  protection than federal equal protection analysis ([Oregon Bar Bulletin legal analysis](https://hoffmanlawpnw.com/publications/making-a-legal-record-under-the-oregon-constitution-or-if-you-dont-raise-it-you-lose-it-2/))

- **Favorable Precedent**: Successful constitutional challenges in
  marriage equality and gender recognition cases

**Current Legal Challenge**

**Case**: *Hadachek et al. v. Oregon* **Court**: Multnomah County
Circuit Court **Case Number**: 25CV18224 **Filed**: March 27, 2025
**Claims**: Oregon\'s Female Genital Mutilation statutes violate equal
protection by protecting only girls

#### IV. Current Plaintiffs & Critical Vulnerabilities

**Existing Plaintiffs (All Male Circumcision Claims)**

1.  **Cecil Mininger** (39) - Circumcised Portland, 1985

2.  **Carter Moody** (27) - Circumcised Portland, 1998

3.  **Landon Moody** (25) - Circumcised Portland, 2000

4.  **Dane Hadachek** (17) - Circumcised Bend, 2007

5.  **Sierra Hadachek** - Mother claiming emotional trauma

6.  **John Doe 1 & 2** - Intact minors added July 17, 2025

**Fatal Legal Weaknesses Identified by Oregon\'s Motion**

**Standing Deficiencies**:

- Plaintiffs demonstrate only \"abstract policy interests\"

- No concrete harm from Oregon\'s female genital cutting laws

- Past circumcisions create speculative rather than present injuries

**Justiciability Problems**:

- Challenged statutes cannot apply to male plaintiffs

- Constitutional relief provides no \"meaningful relief\" for
  circumcision

- [ORCP 27](https://oregon.public.law/rules-of-civil-procedure/orcp-27-minor-or-incapacitated-parties/)
  violations: Minor plaintiffs lack guardian ad litem representation

#### V. How Intersex Plaintiffs Transform Constitutional Theory

**Strategic Advantages for Intersex Participation**

**1. Concrete Constitutional Violations**

- Oregon\'s binary classification system provides no guidance for
  intersex anatomy

- Ongoing medical surveillance creates present, continuing harm

- Governmental discrimination in professional/educational settings
  establishes state action

**2. Enhanced Legal Standing**

- **Present Facts**: Active medical relationships and intervention
  discussions

- **Meaningful Relief**: Constitutional ruling would require inclusive
  protection framework

- **Concrete Injury**: Real people currently unprotected by arbitrary
  legal classifications

**3. Stronger Evidence Base**

- Intersex procedures typically more invasive than circumcision

- Medical necessity challenges supported by Oregon medical ethics
  organizations

- Growing Oregon healthcare provider consensus opposing unnecessary
  interventions

**Ideal Plaintiff Profiles**

**Category 1: Adult Intersex Oregonians with Medical History**

- Ages 18-39 with documented Oregon procedures

- Medical records establishing cosmetic rather than necessary
  interventions

- Within [Oregon\'s child abuse statute](https://oregon.public.law/statutes/ors_12.117)
  (claims until age 40)

**Category 2: Minor Intersex Oregonians with Current Risk**

- Under medical surveillance with intervention recommendations

- Supportive guardians willing to pursue proper [guardian ad litem](https://oregon.public.law/rules-of-civil-procedure/orcp-27-minor-or-incapacitated-parties/)
  representation

- Active Oregon medical relationships creating ongoing constitutional
  violations

**Category 3: Adults Experiencing Oregon Governmental Discrimination**

- Professional licensing barriers or educational discrimination

- Healthcare access issues with state-funded providers

- Continuing constitutional harm requiring immediate redress

#### VI. Immediate Action Steps & Contact Information

**Urgent Timeline**

**Legal Consultation Priority**: Contact attorneys immediately for case
evaluation **Documentation Preservation**: Secure medical records,
governmental correspondence, impact evidence **Guardian Coordination**:
Minor participants require proper legal representation before joining

**Primary Contacts**

**Legal Team**:

- **Eric Clopper**: eric@intactglobal.org \| [The Clopper Law Firm](https://www.clopper.law/)

**Community Support**:

- **InterConnect**: Follow-up through established conference networks

- [**Genital Autonomy Collective (GAC)**](https://www.autonomycollective.org/): Portland
  regional support and strategic coordination

- **Strategic Coordination**: Carrie Cantrell presentation follow-up

**Screening Questions for Potential Plaintiffs**

1.  **Oregon Connection**: Procedures in Oregon or by Oregon providers?

2.  **Timeline Compliance**: Within [statute of limitations](https://oregon.public.law/statutes/ors_12.117)
    frameworks?

3.  **Documented Impact**: Physical, psychological, professional, or
    personal harm evidence?

4.  **Medical Necessity Challenge**: Expert testimony availability for
    cosmetic procedure claims?

5.  **Ongoing Harm**: Current surveillance, discrimination, or
    intervention risks?

**Essential Resources**

**Legal Information**

- **Oregon Legislature**: [Official statutes and constitutional text](https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/)

- **Oregon Courts**: [State judicial system information](https://www.courts.oregon.gov/)

- **Oregon State Bar**: [Attorney verification and legal resources](https://www.osbar.org/)

- **Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure**: [Court procedural requirements](https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/SiteAssets/ORCP.html)

**Case-Specific Resources**

- [**Intact Global**](https://www.intactglobal.org/):
  Primary litigation funding organization

- [**GALDEF**](https://www.galdef.org/): Legal defense
  fund supporting constitutional litigation

- [**Law Works LLC**](https://www.law-works.com/): Local
  counsel firm with civil rights expertise

**Medical and Advocacy Support**

- **InterConnect**: 29-year intersex support organization providing
  community foundation

- [**Genital Autonomy Collective (GAC)**](https://www.autonomycollective.org/): Portland
  regional support group with intersectional advocacy approach

- **Oregon Medical Ethics Organizations**: Healthcare providers
  supporting informed consent standards

- **Medical Records Assistance**: Guidance for securing childhood
  procedure documentation through Oregon healthcare systems

**International Context**

*Removed per presenter request to maintain local Oregon focus*

**Legal Glossary**

**Constitutional Justiciability**

Legal doctrine requiring courts to decide only concrete controversies
where judicial resolution provides practical effect. Oregon requires
\"present facts\" (current disputes) and \"meaningful relief\"
(decisions actually helping plaintiffs).

*Application*: Oregon argues current plaintiffs fail justiciability;
intersex plaintiffs cure this defect through ongoing governmental harm
and immediate redressability.

**Equal Protection**

Constitutional principle requiring government to treat similarly
situated individuals equally, with heightened scrutiny for protected
characteristics like sex.

*Application*: [Oregon Constitution Article I, Section 20](https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/lawsstatutes/orcons.html)
applies strict scrutiny to sex-based classifications, providing stronger
protection than federal equal protection analysis.

**Guardian Ad Litem**

Court-appointed adult representing minor\'s interests in legal
proceedings, separate from parents or regular attorneys.

*Application*: [ORCP 27](https://oregon.public.law/rules-of-civil-procedure/orcp-27-minor-or-incapacitated-parties/)
requires guardian ad litem for minor plaintiffs; current case violates
this requirement, creating dismissal vulnerability.

**ORS 12.117 - Oregon\'s Child Abuse Statute**

Limitation period allowing claims until age 40 OR five years from
discovering causal connection between childhood abuse and adult
injuries, whichever is longer.

*Application*: Most favorable timeline for intersex plaintiffs,
recognizing discovery rule for connecting childhood procedures to adult
complications.

**ORCP 27 - Minor or Incapacitated Parties**

Oregon rule requiring guardian ad litem representation for minor
plaintiffs in legal proceedings.

*Application*: Current minor plaintiffs lack required representation,
creating procedural vulnerability Oregon exploits in motion to dismiss.

**Intersex vs. Non-Binary: Legal Distinctions**

**Intersex**: Medical/biological term referring to individuals born with
variations in sex characteristics (chromosomes, hormones, internal or
external anatomy) that don\'t fit typical male or female patterns.
Intersex is a biological reality present at birth, distinct from gender
identity.

*Legal Application*: Oregon\'s binary sex classification system in FGM
statutes fails to address intersex anatomy, creating enforcement gaps
where procedures affecting intersex children receive no statutory
protection regardless of invasiveness or medical necessity.

**Non-Binary**: Gender identity term for individuals whose gender
identity doesn\'t align exclusively with male or female categories.
Non-binary identity is about internal sense of gender, not biological
sex characteristics.

*Legal Application*: Jamie Shupe\'s case (represented by Lake Perriguey)
established first legal non-binary gender recognition, addressing
identity documentation rather than medical protection issues. This
demonstrates Perriguey\'s broader LGBTQ+ civil rights expertise but
differs from intersex medical protection needs.

**Critical Distinction for This Case**: Intersex individuals may have
any gender identity (including non-binary), but this case addresses
medical protection based on biological sex characteristics at birth, not
gender identity recognition. Oregon\'s statute protects specific female
anatomy but provides no guidance for intersex variations, creating the
constitutional violation regardless of gender identity.

**Pro Hac Vice**

Latin for \"for this occasion only\" - allows out-of-state attorneys to
represent clients in specific cases with court approval.

*Application*: Eric Clopper received Oregon admission June 25, 2025,
demonstrating case\'s interstate significance and specialized expertise.

**Complete Bibliography**

**Primary Legal Sources**

Oregon Judicial Department. (2025). *Case Information: 25CV18224
Hadachek et al. v. State of Oregon*. Multnomah County Circuit Court.

Forzley, S., Morgan, S., & Morrow, K. E. (2025, July 23). *Defendant\'s
motion to dismiss* \[Legal brief\]. Case No. 25CV18224, Oregon Circuit
Court for Multnomah County.

Oregon Legislative Assembly. (2025). *Oregon Constitution Article I*.
https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/lawsstatutes/orcons.html

Oregon Legislative Assembly. (2025). *Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter
12 - Limitations of Actions and Suits*.
https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/ors/ors012.html

Oregon Legislative Assembly. (2025). *Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter
163 - Offenses Against Persons*.
https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/ors/ors163.html

Oregon Legislative Assembly. (2025). *Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure*.
https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/SiteAssets/ORCP.html

**Legal Organizations and Professional Resources**

Genital Autonomy Legal Defense & Education Fund. (2025). *Mission and
impact litigation support*. https://www.galdef.org/

Intact Global. (2025). *Protecting children through strategic
constitutional litigation*. https://www.intactglobal.org/

Law Works LLC. (2025). *Civil rights and constitutional law practice*.
https://www.law-works.com/

Oregon State Bar. (2025). *Attorney information and legal resources*.
https://www.osbar.org/

The Clopper Law Firm PC. (2025). *Constitutional and civil rights
litigation*. https://www.clopper.law/

**Medical and Ethical Sources**

The Brussels Collaboration on Bodily Integrity. (2024). Genital
modifications in prepubescent minors: When may clinicians ethically
proceed? *The American Journal of Bioethics*, 24(2), 1-18.

**Government and International Sources**

Oregon Attorney General\'s Office. (2025). *Department of Justice
official information*. https://www.doj.state.or.us/

Oregon Judicial Department. (2025). *Official court system information
and case access*. https://www.oregonjudicial.gov/

United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. (2025).
*International human rights standards and intersex issues*.
https://www.ohchr.org/

**Statutory and Regulatory Sources**

Oregon Public Law. (2025). *ORS 12.117 -- Actions based on child abuse*.
https://oregon.public.law/statutes/ors_12.117

Oregon Public Law. (2025). *Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure - ORCP 27*.
https://oregon.public.law/rules-of-civil-procedure/orcp-27-minor-or-incapacitated-parties/

**This presentation represents a critical moment in intersex rights
advancement. The constitutional framework exists, experienced legal
counsel is engaged, and Oregon\'s strong equal protection provisions
create optimal conditions for transformative precedent. Success requires
immediate community mobilization to seize this opportunity before the
window closes permanently.**

**Contact the legal team immediately if you meet potential plaintiff
criteria. Finding an intersex plaintiff could determine whether this
becomes the landmark case protecting all children regardless of sex
characteristics.**
